### Tauntologies and stuff cont.
#### #14
Determine whether $(\neg p \land (p \rightarrow q)) \rightarrow \neg q$ is a tautology.

$(\neg p \land (p \rightarrow q)) \rightarrow \neg q$

$\equiv(\neg p \land (\neg p \lor q)) \rightarrow \neg q$

$\equiv \neg (\neg p \land(\neg p \lor q)) \lor \neg q$

$\equiv (p \lor \neg(\neg p \lor q))\lor \neg q$

$\equiv (p \lor (p \land \neg q)) \lor \neg q$

$\equiv p \lor (p \land \neg q) \lor \neg q$

$\equiv p \lor ((p \land \neg q) \lor \neg q)$

$\equiv p \lor ((p \lor \neg q) \land \neg q)$

$\equiv (p \lor(p\lor \neg q)) \land (p \lor \neg q)$ ???

$\equiv p \lor \neg q$


#### #15
Determine whether $(\neg q \land (p \rightarrow q)) \rightarrow \neg p$ is a tautology.

$(\neg q \land (p \rightarrow q)) \rightarrow \neg p$

$\equiv(\neg q \land (\neg p \lor q)) \rightarrow \neg p$

$\equiv((\neg q \land \neg p) \lor (\neg q \lor q)) \rightarrow \neg p$

$\equiv(\neg q \land \neg p) \rightarrow \neg p$

$\equiv \neg (\neg q \land \neg p) \lor \neg p$

$\equiv q \land (p \lor \neg p)$

$\equiv q \lor T$

#### #22
Show that
$(p\rightarrow q) \land (p \rightarrow r)$
and
$p \rightarrow (q \land r)$
are logically equivalent.

$(p\rightarrow q) \land (p \rightarrow r) \equiv p \rightarrow (q \land r)$

$(\neg p \lor q) \land (\neg p \lor r) \equiv \neg p \lor (q \land r)$

$\neg p \lor (q \land r) \equiv \neg p \lor (p \land r)$

### Predicates and Quantifiers

#### Predicate Logic
Predicate logic uses the following features:
* variables: x,y,z
* Predicates: "is greater than 3", "has some property"
* Quantifiers: (to be covered in the following)

*Propositional functions are generalizations of propositions.*
* They contain variables and a predicate.
  * Ex:
    * $P(x)=x>3$
* Variables can be replaced by elements from their *domain*.

#### Propositional Functions
propositoinal functions become propsoitions (and have truth values) when their variables are each replaced by a value from the *domain*.

The statement $P(x)$ is said to be the value of the propositional funciton $P$ at $x$.

For example, let $P(x)$ denote "$x>0$" and teh domain be teh integers.

Then:
* $P(-3)$ is false.
* $P(0)$ is false.
* $P(3)$ is true.

#### Exmaple of Propositional Functions
Let $x+y=z$ be denoted by $R(x,y,z)$ and $U$ (for all three variables) be the integers. Find these truth values:
* $R(2,-1,5)$
  * False
* $R(3,4,7)$
  * True
* $R(x,3,z)$
  * not a proposition

#### Compound Expressions
Connectives from propsitional logic carry over to predicate logic.

If $P(x)$ denotes $x>0$ find these truth values:
* $P(3)\lor P(-1)$
  * True
* $P(3) \land P(-1)$
  * False

#### Quantifiers
We need *quantifiers* to express the meaning of english words including *all* and *some*:
* "All men are mortal."
* "Some cats do not have fur."

The Two most important quantifiers are:
* Universal Quantifier, "For all," symbol: $\forall$
* Existential Quantifier, "There exists", symbol: $\exists$

#### Universal Quantifier
$\forall x P(x)$ is read as "For all x, P(x)" or "For every x, P(x)"

#### Existential Quantifier
$\exists x P(x)$ is read as "For some x, P(x)", or as "There exists such an x such that P(x)"

Ex:
* If $P(x)$ denotes $x>0$ and $U$ is the integers, then $\exists x P(x)$ is true. it is also true if $U$ is the positive integers.

### Thinking about Quantifiers
When the domain of discourse if finite, we can think of quantification as looping through elements in the domain.

To evaluate $\forall x P(x)$ loop through all *x* in the domain.
* If at every step/iteration $P(x)$ is true, then $\forall x P(x)$ is true.
* If at one step/iteration $P(x)$ is false, then $\forall x P(x)$ is false and the loop terminates.

### Properties of Quantifiers
The truth value of $\forall x P(x)$ $\exists x P(x)$ depend both on the propositoinal function $P(x)$ and on the domain $U$.

Ex:
* $P(x)=x<2$
  * $\forall x P(x)$ is false, b/c $P(3)$ is false.
  * $\exists x P(x)$ is true, b/c $P(1)$ is true.

### Precedence of Quantifiers
The quantifiers $\exists$ and $\forall$ have higher precedence than all logical operators.
