### Translating form English to Logic
Ex 1:
>Every student in this class has taken a course in Java.

$U =$ all people

$J(x) = x$ has taken a course in Java

$S(x) = x$ is a student in this class

$\forall x (S(x) \rightarrow J(x))$

Ex 2:
>Some students in this class have taken a course in Java.

Solution 1:
$U =$ all students in this class. Translates as $\exists x J(x)$.

Solution 2:
$U =$ all people. then translate as $\exists x (S(x) \land J(x))$.

### #7
Translate these statements where $C(x)$ is "$x$ is a comedian" and $F(x)$ is "$x$ is funny" and the domain consists of all people.
#### a.) $\forall x(C(x) \rightarrow F(x))$
All people who are comedians are funny.

#### b.) $\forall x(C(x) \land F(x))$
All people are comedians and funny.

#### c.) $\exists x(C(x) \rightarrow F(x))$
There exists a comedian that is funny.

#### b.) $\exists x(C(x) \land F(x))$
There exists a person that is a comedian and funny.

### Negating Quantified Expressions
>There is a student in this class who has taken a course in Java.

$\exists x J(x)$

Negation:
>No student in this class has taken a class in Java.

$\neg \exists x J(x)$

### De Morgan's Laws for Quantifiers
$$\neg \exists x J(x) \equiv \forall x \neg P(x)$$
$$\neg \forall x J(x) \equiv \exists x \neg P(x)$$

Ex:
>Some students in this class have visited Mexico.

$U =$ people

$M(x) =$ x has visited mexico

$S(x) =$ x is a student in this class

$$\exists x (S(x) \land M(x))$$

$\neg \exists x (S(x) \land M(x))$

$\equiv \forall x \neg (S(x) \land M(x))$

$\equiv \forall x (\neg S(x) \lor \neg M(x))$
